Diseases Detection of Various Plant Leaf Using
Image Processing Techniques: AReview
Santhosh Kumar.S1
Research Scholar, Department of CS&E
KSSEM, VTU affiliated
Karnataka, Bengaluru, India
santhoshkumars.cs@gmail.com
Abstract— Agriculture is a key source of livelihood.
Agriculture provides employment opportunities for village
people on large scale in developing country like India.
India's agriculture is composed of many crops and
according to survey nearly 70% population is depends on
agriculture. Most of Indian farmers are adopting manual
cultivation due to lagging of technical knowledge. Farmers
are unaware of what kind of crops that grows well on their
land. When plants are affected by heterogeneous diseases
through their leaves that will effects on production of
agriculture and profitable loss. Also reduction in both
quality and amount of agricultural production. Leaves are
important for fast growing of plant and to increase
production of crops. Identifying diseases in plants leave is
challenging for farmers also for researchers. Currently
farmers are spraying pesticides to the plants but it effects
human directly or indirectly by health or also
economically. To detect these plant diseases many fast
techniques need to be adopt. In this paper, we have done
survey on different plants disease and various advance
techniques to detect these diseases.
Keywords—Crops, Cultivation, pesticides, Plant diseases.
I. INTRODUCTION
Indian economy is dependent of agricultural productivity.
Over 70% of rural homes depend on agriculture. Agriculture
pays about 17% to the total GDP [1] and provides
employment to over 60% of the population. Therefore
detection of plant diseases plays a vital key role in the arena of
agriculture. Indian agriculture is composed of many crops like
rice, wheat. Indian farmers also grow sugarcane, oilseeds,
potatoes and non-food items like coffee, tea, cotton, rubber.
All these crops grow based on strength of leaves and roots.
There are things that lead to different disease for the plant
leaves, which spoiled crops and finally it will effect on
economy of the country. These big losses can be avoided by
early identification of plant diseases. Accurate detection of
plant disease is needed to strengthen the field of agriculture
and economy of our country. Various types of Disease kill
leaves in a plant. Farmers get more difficulties in identifying
these diseases, they are unable to take precaution on those
plants due to lack of knowledge on those diseases. Biomedical
is one of the fields to detect plant diseases. In current day
among this field, the image processing methods are suitable,
efficient and reliable field for disease detection with help of
plant leaf images. Farmers need fast and efficient techniques
B.K.Raghavendra2
Professor and Head, Department of CS&E
KSSEM, VTU affiliated
Karnataka, Bengaluru, India
raghavendra.bk69@gmail.com
to detect all types of diseases of plants that can save time.
These systems that can reduce efforts and use of pesticides.
For measurement of yields in agriculture different ideas are
proposed by scientists with the help of laboratory and systems
for efficient identification of plant leaf diseases. The paper we
presented here is survey of various types of plant diseases and
techniques for detection of disease by different researchers.
.
II. KEY ISSUES AND CHALLENGES IN THE FIELD
OF DISEASE ANALYSIS
Many researchers had done research on various plants and
their diseases also they had given some techniques to identify
that disease. Automation of identifying disease entails the
input date collected from different sources. In this review,
considering all different research papers we are identifying
and discussing key issues, challenges on disease and
techniques are as follows.
• Quality image of plant leaves
• Data set need to be considered in large amount.
• Acquired images are affected by background data and
noises.
• Segmenting the exact spot in a leaf into meaningful
disease. Preparation of training and testing samples
from input image.
• Classification plays a role in recognizing segmented
spot into meaningful disease.
• Colour of plant leaf, size and texture are varying when
climate changed.
• Regular observation is needed for particular plants.
• Identifying diseases for different plant leaves is
challenging.
• Reviews suggest that image processing and machine
learning techniques have more potential to find
diseases so, there has to be improving in existing
research.
Keeping all these in mind and to discuss the techniques used
to accomplish these challenges, the literature survey is
discussed.
III. LITERATURE SURVEY ON VARIOUS PLANT
DISEASE
Many researchers had done research on various plants and
their diseases also they had given some techniques to identify
that disease. To get understanding of this research area, we
carry out a study on various types of plants with diseases. This
2019 5th International Conference on Advanced Computing & Communication Systems (ICACCS)
978-1-5386-9533-3/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 313
survey will help to propose novel idea for identification of
diseases.
A. DIFFERENT TYPES OF PLANT DISEASE
The reason for this section is that researchers can understand
type of image processing operation and type of feature need to
be considered by observing various diseases.
Disease to the plants that takes place when a virus, bacteria
infects a plant and disorders its normal growth. Effect on plant
leaves can vary from discoloration to death. Disease causes
due to including fungi, microbes, viruses, nematodes. Here we
are discussing some common diseases in Maize, arecanut,
coconut trees, Papaya, Cotton, Chilli, Tomato, Brinjal. The
images of plant disease are shown in Fig.1. Several variants of
Diseases are explained further.
• Rust: It is usually found on leaves lower surfaces of
mature plants. Initially raised spots on the undersides of
leaves. As time passes these spots become reddishorange spore masses. Later, leaf postules turn to yellowgreen and eventually black. Severe infestations will
bend and yellow leaves and cause leaf drop[2].
• Kole Roga: It is a major disease of arecanut. The
pathogen is a fungus Phytophthora palmivora[3].
• Yellow leaf disease: This disease caused by pathogen
Phytoplasma in arecanut where green leaves tuning into
yellow that gradually decline in yield.
• Leaf rot: It is caused in coconut tree. It is caused by
fungi or bacteria. Leaf spot vary in size, shape and
colors [4].
• Leaf curl: Disease is characterized by leaf curl. It can
cause by fungus, genus Taphrina or virus[5].
• Angular leaf spot: Most of cotton plants die due to this
disease because it appears on leaves first then water
soaked. Finally turn black and form holes in leaves [6].
• Leaf spot: It is serious bacterial disease found in chili
spread by Xanthomonas campestris pv vesicatoria [7].
The symptoms like small yellow green legions and
patches on leaves.
• Late Blight: Late Blight spreads rapidly. The
development of the fungus due to Cool and wet
weather. It forms irregularly shaped ashen spots signs
on leaves. Around the spots there will be a ring of white
mold [8].
• Bacterial wilt: Brinjal cultivation yield drops due to
bacterial wilt. Entire plant has fall down due to wilting
of the foliage [9].
Rust: Maize Kole Roga: Arecanut
Leaf Rot: Cocunut Papay LeavesCurl
Angular Leafspot: Cotton Leaf Spot:Chilli
Tomato Late Blight Bacterial wilt: Brinjal
Fig.1. Plant Diseases in various Plants
IV. REVIEW OF LITERATURE
Automation of identifying disease is of great interest in the
agriculture field around the world. Many researchers are
carried out in detection of those diseases. Below are the various
plant disease studies of the techniques used by the researchers
in meeting the endeavour. The survey has been made on the
major disease on various plants.
Gittaly Dhingra [10] describes application of agriculture using
computer vision technology to recognize and classify disease
of plant leaf. The paper deals with correlation between disease
symptoms and impact on product yield. It also deals with
increase the number of training data and testing to accomplish
better accuracy.
Shitala Prasad [11] proposed mobile based client-server design
for leaf disease detection using Gabor wavelet transom (GWT).
In this system first carried out color conversion from the device
dependent to colour space model. Mobile pre-processing can
be done after acquiring leaf and converting color space. For
human vision system Human perception*a*b colour space was
designed. Making human perception of lightness more accurate
by changing output curves in a & b components. To perform
analysis of leaf image, K-means unsupervised algorithm was
used. To perform feature extraction Gabor wavelet conversion
2019 5th International Conference on Advanced Computing & Communication Systems (ICACCS)
314
was used. Author of this paper experimented with homemade
dataset. In future proposing efficiently processing of Captured
Leaf images in a complex background with different lightening
condition.
Shanwen Zhang[12], discussed hybrid clustering method. Leaf
segmentation is important in detection of plant diseases which
affects reliability of feature extraction. Author used super pixel
clustering in which neighboring pixels with some feature with
respect to brightness, texture, color are grouped into
homogeneous regions. This can reduce complexity of images
from more pixels. Author suggest that Expectation
maximization (EM) algorithm may be good approach for color
image segmentation.
Keyvan Asefpour Vakilian[13] demonstrate that detect two
types of fungus in cucumber plant leaves. ANN model with 3
layers were utilized to identify P.cubensis and S.fuliginea
infection. Author has taken real time germinated seeds of
cucumber on moist paper which is at degree c for 3 days.
Further research is needed to increase the ability of farmers
assisted robots in real time detection of fungal and viral disease
Mohammed Brahimi [14] proposed deep learning method to
create classifier for detection of disease. Also proposed the
occlusion concept to localize the disease regions & help to
understand the disease. Author uses datasets which is published
in good fellow, Bengio etc, further research is need to reduce
the computation & size of deep models for small machine like
mobiles
H.Al-Hiary[15],proposed detection of plant diseases using
automation and classify its diseases. Here pixels are grouped
on set of feature into total k classes. When leaf has more than
one disease then there is more clusters that cause disease. ANN
is used to detection and classification of disease. Further
research need to increase the accuracy ofdetection.
Yuanyuan Shao[16] discussed multi feature and genetic
algorithm BP neural network. Otsu method were used for
segmentation & extraction. Practically in real time tobacco
disease can be identified through mobile client and server can
make a diagnosis on diseases which were uploaded by user.
Here Otsu method was used to extract spot disease. Genetic
algorithm can reduce training times and improve recognition
accuracy. Further research needs other method describe
tobacco disease feature and to improve accuracy.
Vijai Singh[17] presented an algorithm for segmentation of
plant leaf image. Author proposed image recognition and
segmentation process. First, devices were used to capture
image of different types and applied different segmentation
method to process image. The author taken image of size m*n
& every pixel has R,G,B components. Color co-occurrence
method was used for feature extraction. Above experiments are
done in MATLAB. Author demonstrates the results only for
beans, leaf, lemon and banana leaf. Further research is needed
for all types of leaves.
Shanwen Zhang[18] proposed method for recognizing disease
for cucumber leaves. Due to irregular shapes, complexity,
shadows existing classifiers are not suitable for detection. From
image of leaf, Author proposed a method using combined
shape and color features. Author performed region
segmentation from diseased image using K-means clustering
algorithm. First system can collect images from data set. Image
are converting from Red, Green, Blue space to
Luminance*a*b* color model. Then classify color using kmeans clustering. Here each image is processed using
techniques of smoothing, enhancing, denoising, alignment and
segmented by k-means clustering techniques.
Amar Kumar Dey[19] used image processing algorithm for
betel vine to detect leaf rot disease. They proposed vision based
method to detect and observe peripheral disease features.
Based on color feature of rotted leaf area disease are
identifying. Author chooses Bangla desi varieties of betel vine.
They used cannon scanner with 300 PPI resolutions for
detection. A leaf disease severity can be identified as leaf total
area calculation and percentage diseased area. Author used
Otsu thresholding method for segmenting leaf rot diseases.
Srdjan Sladojevic [20] used deep convolution network
approach for leaf disease recognition using classification
method. Researcher proves that climate change can alter stage
and pathogen development rate. Trained deep neural network
to differentiate surrounding of leaves. To highlight region of
interest all images are cropped manually by making square
around the leaves. Author applied augmented process to
increase dataset. Augmentation includes rotations,
transformation and affine transformation. This paper presented
caffe as a deep CNN framework.
Manisha Bhangea [21] designed modern techniques which is
web based tool for identifying disease from the image. In this
techniques, first uploaded image in the web portal is resized
and extracted image feature such as color, morphology etc.
Author uses K-means for clustering and for classification SVM
was used. In this paper farmers need to upload the plant leaf for
disease detection in real time. Proposed framework that
maintains two image databases for disease detection. One for
training and other for testing. Author used erosion morphology
techniques for description and representation of region shape.
Author categorizes three stages for infection such as infected
first stage, second stage, and Third stage. The paper presented
for bacterial blight disease in pomegranate fruit. Further
research is improving system performance to detect disease in
large dataset.
Usama Mokhtar[22] presented Gabor wavelet transform
techniques to extract tomato leaf feature. They used SVM to
detect leaf diseases. For experiments considering real sample
images of tomato leaf and author observing two types of
disease in tomato leaves including early blight and powdery
mildew. In preprocessing phase images are resized to 512*512
resolutions to deduce the computational time. Applied
background subtraction method to remove background of
image. In the classification, using of kernel function the SVM
was trained and tested.
V. IMPORTANCE OF AUTOMATION
The agriculture department has taken initiative in the
prevention of plants from different types of diseases in all
seasons. The automation can overcome the manual
observation of disease in plants by applying image processing
2019 5th International Conference on Advanced Computing & Communication Systems (ICACCS)
315
practices plays a role in the computers era. Over decades many
researchers have experimented lot of research on plant leaves
to detect and recognize a type of diseases, this automation can
find early disease that helps to prevent damages for plants and
list of some diseases and techniques are specified above in the
literature review, which actually bring to a close the
importance of continuing the research for the next level of
competency. The semantic gap in the identification of disease
is growing day by day, as finding pathologists are difficult.
Automation helps to prevent the spraying large amount of
pesticides to plants. Moreover this automation can prevent
human life also.
VI. OVERALL REVIEWS
The above Literature survey has detailed explanation of the
importance of disease detection both to plants and to mankind.
To have a meaningful impact of plant diseases & techniques in
the area of agriculture, deliberation of proper input is
necessary. Research issues addressed here are to develop a
systematic approach to detect and recognize the plant diseases
would assist farmers and pathologist in prospect exploration.
The paper depicts the importance of image processing in
agriculture field and considering the type of disease for further
research work
REFERENCES
[1] “Indian agriculture economy.”. Available: http:// statistics
times.com/economy/sectorwise-gdp-Contribution-ofindia.
Php
[2] “Common rust in maize”, Available: https://www.
pioneer.com/home/site/us/agronomy/library/common-rustin-corn/
[3] Indian Council of Agricultural Research”, Available:
https://www.apsnet.org/publications/imageresource/
Pages/Fi00158.aspx
[4] “family of trees”, https:// plantvillage .psu. edu/ topics/ co
conut/infos
[5] “Agropedia”, Available:http://agropedia.iitk.ac.in /
content /papaya-diseases-its-control
[6] Prof.Sonal, P.Patil, Rupali, Zambre,”Classification of
Cotton Leaf Spot Disease Using SVM,” International
Journal of Engineering Research & Applications”,
Vol.4,pp.92-97, May 2014
[7] https:// worldofchillies.com/growing_chillies/chilli_pest
problems diseases/chilli diseases/chillidiseases.html
[8] Pragya Adhikari, Yeonyee Oh, Dilip R. Panthee” Current
Status of Early Blight Resistance in Tomato: An Update,”
International Journal of Molecular Science”, September
2017
[9] Akansha Pandey, Sanjeev Dubey,” Evaluations of brinjal
germplasm for resistance to fusarium wilt disease,”
nternational Journal of Scientific and Research
Publications, Volume 7, Issue 7, July 2017
[10] Gittaly Dhingra, Vinay Kumar, Hem Dutt Joshi ,“Study
of digital image processing techniques for leaf disease
detection and classification,” Springer-Science, 29
November 2017
[11] Shitala Prasad, Sateesh K. Peddoju, Debashis Ghosh ,“
Multi-resolution mobile vision system for plant leaf
disease diagnosis,” pp. 379–388, Springer-Verlag
London 2015
[12] Shanwen Zhang, Zhuhong You, Xiaowei Wu,” Plant
disease leaf image segmentation based on superpixel
clustering and EM algorithm,” Springer, June 2017.
[13] Keyvan Asefpour Vakilian & Jafar Massah,” An artificial
neural network approach to identify fungal diseases of
cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) Plants using digital
image processing,” Vol. 46, No. 13,1580–1588, Taylor
&Francis, 2013
[14] Mohammed Brahimi, Kamel Boukhalfa & Abdelouahab
Moussaoui,” Deep Learning for Tomato Diseases:
Classification and Symptoms Visualization,” vol. 31,
no.4, 299–315, Taylor & Francis, 2017
[15] H.Al-Hiary, S. Bani-Ahmad, M.Reyalat, M.Braik &
Z.AlRahamneh, “Fast and Accurate Detection and
Classification of Plant Diseases”, International Journal
of Computer Applications, Vol.17,No.1, pp.31-38.March
2011.
[16] Yuanyuan Shao, Guantao Xuan, Yangyan Zhu, Yanling
Zhang, Hongxing Peng, Zhongzheng Liu & Jialin Hou,”
Research on automatic identification system of tobacco
diseases”, vol. 65, no. 4, 252–259, Taylor & Francis,
2017
[17] Vijai Singh, A.K. Misra,” Detection of plant leaf diseases
using image segmentation and soft computing
Techniques,”Information Processing In Agriculture 4
(2017) 41–49 , science direct, 2017
[18] Shanwen Zhang , Xiaowei Wuc, Zhuhong You, Liqing
Zhang,” Leaf image based cucumber disease recognition
using sparse representation classification,” Computers
and
Electronics in Agriculture 135–141, science direct, 2017
[19] Amar Kumar Dey, Manisha Sharma, M.R.Meshram,”
Image Processing Based Leaf Rot Disease, Detection of
Betel Vine (Piper BetleL.),” Procedia Computer Science
748 – 754, science direct, 2016
[20] Srdjan Sladojevic, Marko Arsenovic, Andras Anderla,
Dubravko Culibrk and Darko Stefanovic,” Deep Neural
Networks Based Recognition of Plant Diseases by Leaf
Image Classification,” Hindawi Publishing Corporation
Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience,Vol 2016,
Article ID 3289801, 11 pages
[21] Manisha Bhange, H.A.Hingoliwala,” Smart Farming:
Pomegranate Disease Detection Using Image
Processing,” Procedia Computer Science 280 – 288,
science direct, 2015
[22] Usama Mokhtar, Mona A. S. Ali, Aboul Ella Hassenian,
Hesham Hefny,” Tomato leaves diseases detection
approach based on support vector machines,” IEEE,2015
2019 5th International Conference on Advanced Computing & Communication Systems (ICACCS)
316